# Belgian Congo

## Important Words Atrocity

- Genocide
- Colonialism
- Slavery
- Racism

## Talking Points

- How the name "King Leopold II" should carry the same weight as the name "Adolf
  Hitler" does
- Africa as a whole has suffered greatly from the horrid practices of
  colonialism and expansionism
- Trevor Noah: *Born a Crime*

## <https://www.historytoday.com/archive/contrarian/belgiums-heart-darkness>

Orchestrated by King Leopold II of Belgium, born 1835, died in 1909. He
convinced European powers to grant him a large piece of land in the Congo Basin.
He named the land The Congo Free State in 1885, a name that would prove to be
very ironic. This land was 76 times the size of Belgium. The part of the land
that proved to be very profitable for Leopold was the many rubber trees found in
the Congo. Leopold turned to the natives in the area --- the Congolese --- to
harvest the rubber as slave laborers. Villages were given quotas of rubber that
had to be met with the threat of hostages being killed. One of the most famous
parts of this atrocity was stemmed from the rule that the Belgians who collected
the rubber from the Congolese had limited bullets. To prove that they weren't
wasting them on anything besides killing hostages, they were told to bring the
severed hands of all the Congolese whom they shot. This resulted in a black
market for severed hands, where many living Congolese were round up to have
their hands chopped off, even when they had met their rubber quotas. This was a
disgusting crime against humanity committed by the Belgians and namely King
Leopold II.

## <https://www.sydneycriminallawyers.com.au/blog/a-forgotten-genocide-the-congo-free-state>

## <https://www.britannica.com/place/Democratic-Republic-of-the-Congo/History>

**IMPORTANT** Area called *Congo Free State* (1885â€“1908) was private property of
King Leopold II. The rest of the Belgian government did not agree with what was
happening. It became a colony and was renamed *The Belgian Congo*. Gained
independence in **1960** and renamed *Republic of the Congo*

From 15th-17th century: The *Kongo kingdom* and *Luba-Lunda States*. These
systems were very complex and had kings ruling over large areas with chiefs
ruling under them. From the 16th century onwards, the politics in the area were
completely unstable due to the Atlantic Slave Trade. This practice did and
continues to have horrible effects on the entirety of Central- and West Africa.
The African people, and specifically the Congolese were already facing the
hardships of Europe's slavery and racism when the Belgians under King Leopold II
arrived.

Leopold's committee (*Association Internationale du Congo*) signed contracts
with 450 African entities and used these to justify taking control over the
land. Pretended to be bringing religion, modern life, and an end to slavery to
the Congo. The entire goal of the operation was to squeeze **maximum profit**
out of the Congo Basin, and making use of the Congolese's labor to do so.

1908 the Belgian Parliament votes to annex the Congo Free State and essentially
buys all the land from Leopold to put it under Belgian rule.
