# Rasputin's Diary

## 9 January 1905

Today there was a massacre in the grounds in front of the royal palace today.
The guards shot at the protesters and many unarmed, peaceful workers were
killed. This was a horrible and sinful act by the military. They will pay for
their sins. I was not there while the events were occurring, but a trusted
friend. Relayed the events to me. He told me the workers were on strike and
marched to the palace in order to attempt to reform working conditions. Instead
of being met with the politicians, they were shot upon.

## 3 April 1905

Today was a very eventful day. I went out in St. Petersburg again today to
spread the word of God. My preaching has been going very well. Something
particularly weird happened today. The czar's guards came up to me in the street
and told me they had a very important job for me. They said that the czar was in
need of my assistance. This must be a sign of my holiness from the Lord I have
asked for.

## 7 April 1905

A guard employed by the royal family brought me to their palace. He was a man of
great stature and breadth, such that I believed that I may have been in danger!
But the Lord told me that all was safe, so I went with the man. Once I was in
the palace, the czar and the czarina quickly rushed up to me to ask for my help.
At first, I was very confused, but I soon learned the truth: the heir to the
royal throne, Alexei, suffered from a fatal condition called hemophilia. He bled
uncontrollably with the slightest cut. They hoped my divine powers could help to
heal him. I quickly preformed my magic to heal the boy, but I made sure to
remind the czar that I must remain around the boy in order for the effects to
take place. To my pleasure, they instantly agreed because they have no other
options.

## 8 October 1905

My time spent in the palace thus far has been very exciting for me. It has been
revealed to me that the czar is quite inept in affairs of ruling a country. I
have always wanted to try my hand at politics and this has been a perfect
opportunity to influence things without much hassle. A man as close to the Lord
as me was of course made to rule a country. My presence in the royal palace must
be part of His plan.

## 10 July 1910

The boy's condition has greatly improved. I have kept up with my hypnosis
treatments, and he seems to have an almost complete recovery. I had to take his
off his aspirin medication so that his body was free of impurities during the
hypnosis.

My relations with the royal family are strengthening greatly. They invite me to
the palace often to treat their son, and have come to trust me and enjoy my
presence. I enjoy my time spent in the royal palace. The czar listens to my
suggestions about how he should handle different matters in the country.

## 6 July 1914

Nicholas was talking today about his decision to enter the war in the West that
recently broke out. The country wants to support Serbia who is already in the
war. I believe that there will be soldiers on the front lines in no time.

## 5 September 1915

Today Nicholas finalized his decision to personally oversee the Russian armed
forces. He will be leaving for the front lines later today. He officially left
his wife, the czarina, in charge of the country in his wake, but she has already
made it known to me that she will appreciate my advice on matters greatly. Power
is a beautiful thing. Thank the Lord for this wonderful miracle.

## 30 December 1916

I was invited to a party that will take place later today. Spending the night
with such fine gentlemen in Yusupov palace should prove very useful to my social
status. I may even make a new friend! The men told me there would be plenty of
food, cake, and wine. They do know how to entice me.
